Top 5 English writing sites making your feedback more actionable
################################################################
:date: 2018-06-06 03:00
:author: Emended
:category: Online resources
:slug: top-5-english-writing-sites-making-your-feedback-more-actionable
:status: hidden
:lang: en
:save_as: old/top-5-english-writing-sites-making-your-feedback-more-actionable/index.html
:url: old/top-5-english-writing-sites-making-your-feedback-more-actionable/

*Note: this is an archived blog post.*

**Writing is where information and ideas meet the structure and flow of
language. Sure, anyone can in essence write – but a list of online
resources helping to make good student writing great? Read on!**\ 

*This post is the final leg of a 3-part blog series focusing on online
resources to share with students. Be sure to join us on every stop along
the way – see also our `top 5 game
sites <http://emended.com/top-5-english-language-game-sites-making-your-feedback-more-actionable/>`__
and `top 5 grammar
sites <http://emended.com/top-5-english-grammar-sites-making-your-feedback-more-actionable/>`__!*

With `Emended <http://emended.com/>`__ you can easily guide your
students to the right remedial writing instruction - tips and
explanations that are sure to make technically sound and creative
writers of them. Simply utilise links in your own feedback commentary to
get them one-click access to clarifications and demonstrations seemingly
designed just for them. Feedback doesn’t get more actionable than that!

To spare you searching all the wrong resources for just the right ones,
here are our top 5 English writing sites to share with students:

1. `Purdue Online Writing
Lab <https://owl.english.purdue.edu/owl/section/3/13/>`__

Don’t let access to the Purdue Online Writing Lab (OWL) being free have
you think otherwise – the wealth of information on hand is top-class. We
recommend linking students upper-intermediate and above to OWL content
as the site deals in topical, audience-specific writing (viz. technical,
creative, journalistic, prose) as well as developmental minutia of the
writing process itself, to include pre- and post-writing qualitative
techniques. This second point being, however, what makes the OWL so
interesting – you can link students to individual stages of the writing
process where you’ve determined further explanation and/or example to be
most needed, and thereby imparting to them advice in but a single link
that would take hours for you yourself to verbalise.

2. `International Student’s Essay Writing
Center <https://www.internationalstudent.com/essay_writing/essay_tips/>`__

The Essay Writing Center of International Student is comprehensive and
approachable in having dissected for learners of English the science
(and art) of academic writing. Although more for upper-intermediate
learners and above, the site is for all intents and purposes a
lighthouse by which to guide your ESL-writers in the direction of
creating robust and attention-holding original content – or as the Essay
Writing Center puts it, making sure there’s always an effective ‘hook’.
The resource itself walks readers through the timeless five-paragraph
essay where readers will learn about overall essay structure,
by-the-paragraph particulars, and topic coherence as well as persuasion.
There’s not only great information here, but essentially nothing not
worth reading – ESL student or otherwise!

3. `Center for Writing Studies at the University of Illinois at
Urbana-Champaign <http://www.cws.illinois.edu/workshop/writers/>`__

Courtesy of the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, the Center
for Writing Studies (CWS) casts an admirably wide net, addressing
unspecifically what are widely considered canons of good academic
writing. Bookmarking CWS for future reference online is a no-brainer if
you have students erring in the construction of clausal or sentential
elements as well as finer points such as pronoun agreement or verbal
mood. Not dissimilar to #1 Purdue’s OWL or #2 International Student’s
Essay Writing Center, CWS also appeals to written form with
consideration given to what audience one is writing for and perhaps more
mission-critical yet, the overlying top-to-bottom morphology of the
output itself. Simpler in its explanations, CWS is ideal for your pupils
intermediate and above.

4. `Daily Writing Tips <https://www.dailywritingtips.com/>`__

The blog-styled Daily Writing Tips (DWT) rounds out our top 4. In
bridging what you’re seeing in your students’ writing to the site’s
content, we recommend using DWT’s search bar, located in the site’s
top-right corner. This will spare you the headache of scrolling about
confusedly and getting rather just what you need. For example, should a
student show an erroneous predilection for passive over active voice,
search then quite literally ‘voice’ – an across-the-board formula for
DWT applying to ‘colons’, ‘semicolons’, ‘hyphens’, ‘prepositional
phrases’, or what have you. The site is a breeze to make your own
personal library for writing best practices!

5. `Bartleby.com’s The Elements of Style by William Strunk,
Jr. <http://www.bartleby.com/141/>`__

Unapologetically for English language’s more advanced students,
Bartleby.com hosts what many hold as a flagship point of reference in
the tutelage of academic writing – William Strunk, Jr.’s *The Elements
of Style*. The reference work, which is precisely what this is, is
style-definitive and moreover true to purpose, jumping right in with
best practices in grammatical usage, composition, form, and other
miscellanea. While perhaps most complementary of learners pursuing
literary ends and better shared in small, relevant doses, this seminal
publication has as much a place in history as it does in any high-level
writing course today.
