Top 10 most useful websites for everything English language
###########################################################
:date: 2017-09-27 09:35
:author: Emended
:status: hidden
:lang: en
:save_as: old/top-10-most-useful-websites-for-everything-english-language/index.html
:url: old/top-10-most-useful-websites-for-everything-english-language/

*Note: this is an archived blog post.*

**Whether you’re an English-language teacher or yourself an enthusiast,
here are our 10 favourite and (almost entirely) free online resources
for grammar, vocabulary, self-assessment, and speciality topics that you
shouldn’t be missing out on.**\ 

**GENERAL/GRAMMAR RESOURCES**

1. `Englishpage.com <https://www.englishpage.com/>`__

In addition to being a vast pool of online information and fancying
itself everyone’s personal English school, what brings Englishpage.com
to the fore is its active forum community, essentially bridging
English-language enthusiasts and teachers the world over.
Englishpage.com’s main page boasts an exhaustive A-Z menu of virtually
every facet of the language, allowing visitors to self-refer in-house
with respect to tutorials, curiosities, or even follow-up on everything
from articles and adverbs to verbs and vocabulary.

2. `English Grammar Online <https://www.ego4u.com/>`__

Another regularly updated and active site is English Grammar Online (for
You) - more commonly shortened to ego4u. What makes ego4u a standout in
this otherwise crowded field is its study-guide approach to information
framing and delivery. Whether it’s diagrams and tables for a refresher
or quick-access charts for that late-night cram session, ego4u excels at
the school of to-the-point, no-nonsense ‘cram sheets’ - that is,
information-compact handouts for short, intensive periods of study. In
this sense, ego4u is positively as much an online resource for students
as it is for teachers.

**VOCABULARY RESOURCES**

3. `Merriam-Webster’s Learner’s
Dictionary <http://learnersdictionary.com/>`__

For a vocabulary focus, there is arguably no better online resource than
the Merriam-Webster Learner’s Dictionary. Complete with real-time
elements like Word of the Day and lists for trending searches (see
Lookups), Learner’s Dictionary features an Ask the Editor corner where
visitors from anywhere in the world can read and by clicking a simple
Ask Your Question button actually contribute to an everyday
English-language Q&A. Word-webbing, or the methodological association of
words by purpose or topic, is also 3000-words strong in what
Merriam-Webster calls its Core Vocabulary; the many contexts of which
are usefully topical and vary from sports and jobs to the environment
and even nuances of emotion.

4. `UsingEnglish.com <https://www.usingenglish.com/>`__

For definitions plus, UsingEnglish.com delivers information profiles on
over 100,000 words - yes, you read that number right. Complementary to a
word-checker tool as well as exhaustive word lists (to include hotel
language and military speak), UsingEnglish.com offers a free text
analyser in which a body of text can be entered or pasted and in just a
click, combed through for a myriad of curious statistics - think counts
on unique words used, sentence total, and average number of words per
sentence. Their teacher resources (in the form of handouts, worksheets
and the like) are impressively many and a large subset of which are
classroom-ready printables. And if there’s ever a word you want more
defined or a question you have, there’s an active on-site forum to join
as well.

5. `Woodward English: English Vocabulary <http://www.vocabulary.cl/>`__

Woodward English might be working with a smaller database of words than
Merriam-Webster and UsingEnglish.com, but it makes up for which in
hosting fun activities replete with pictorialised song lyrics as well as
dozens of multi-choice games, to include the timelessly popular hangman,
where students have a limited number of attempts to decipher a word
letter by letter. Equally as helpful is the related site `Woodward
English: English Grammar <http://www.grammar.cl/>`__ being only a click
away and delivering a grammatical counterpart to the vocabulary
resources mentioned here.

**SELF-ASSESSMENT RESOURCES**

6. `GrammarBook.com <http://grammarbook.com/>`__

GrammarBook.com might be all about grammar and punctuation but in doing
so never strays far from the mantra: if you know it, show it. Their
methodically thorough while nonetheless clear delivery of rules
governing the English language is superseded only by their interest in
quizzing you on it. Dozens of self-assessment opportunities are
available for free and with a yearly subscription to their services,
that number increases into the hundreds. An active grammar blog as well
as the professional writing services on offer help bring them a cut
above the competition.

7. `British Council’s
LearnEnglish <http://learnenglish.britishcouncil.org/en>`__

The British Council’s LearnEnglish corner reminds one more of a treasure
trove than anything typical of a classroom. Under their Skills tab,
LearnEnglish is at your service with videos, podcasts, zines, stories,
poems, and writing topics - all with the express goal of exposing you to
native English-language material while then testing your mastery of
which, whatever level that may be. Its site is easily navigable and also
has a warmly diverting feature called Study break, where, just like it
sounds, one gives their focus a rest and delights in games, jokes, or
even Shakespeare, amongst other cultural detours.

**SPECIALITY/TOPICAL RESOURCES**

8. `Oxford Dictionaries:
Usage <https://en.oxforddictionaries.com/grammar/usage>`__

To whom near no one is a stranger, the English site of Oxford
Dictionaries has a less spoken of nook to their main website called
Usage. It’s a touch buried if you’re new to the site with all the videos
and scores of other original content, but you’ll find the link last
under their Grammar section. It is, in our humble opinion, one of the
best collections of English-language guidance on the Internet, focusing
on all sorts of random tidbits from why ‘farther’ and ‘further’ are de
facto not interchangeable and when you should use ‘presume’ in place of
‘assume’ and vice versa. You’ll have to check it out for yourself though
to take in all that’s on offer.

9. `Speakspeak <http://speakspeak.com/>`__

Speakspeak may or may not be an online resource you’ve visited before
but if not, make sure to head over and give it an earnest perusal. It
has countless printables on-demand covering tenses, verbs, prepositions
and what have you - all of which neatly packaged by corresponding levels
of beginner to upper-intermediate and culminating with business. In
addition to the site having a simple-to-surf layout, it offers notes on
grammar, vocabulary, and even commonly tricky areas of pronunciation.
Use of the site is free but if you find yourself willing and able, they
have downloads and e-books for purchase to help support the site.

10. `PinkMonkey.com <http://www.pinkmonkey.com/index2.asp>`__

Last but not least on our list is PinkMonkey.com. Besides having a great
name and a reputation for being appropriate for all ages, they offer one
of the most, if not the most, extensive link libraries for online
reading material. The links they’ve tirelessly vetted, collected, and
organised connect readers to summaries, notes, and interpretations
external to the respective literature itself - a surefire means of
challenging and broadening your own understanding, takeaway, and/or
perspective on matters. Their Most popular section currently shows such
titles as Bram Stoker’s Dracula and R.L. Stevenson’s Treasure Island.
Study guides are also available on a range of school subjects outside of
literature and language, to include world history, biology, and even
physics - very much a site for the inquisitive-minded.
