Top 5 English grammar sites making your feedback more actionable
################################################################
:date: 2018-05-03 03:00
:author: Emended
:slug: top-5-english-grammar-sites-making-your-feedback-more-actionable
:status: hidden
:lang: en
:save_as: old/top-5-english-grammar-sites-making-your-feedback-more-actionable/index.html
:url: old/top-5-english-grammar-sites-making-your-feedback-more-actionable/

*Note: this is an archived blog post.*

**An Internet shortage of free grammar sites? Never. But with the aim of
each to improve grammar, how are students to know which are most
effective, accurate even, and ultimately worth the effort of
finding?**\ 

*This post is the sophomore (second) entry of a 3-part blog series
focusing on online resources to share with students. Be sure to join us
on every stop along the way – next up, the `top 5 writing
sites <http://emended.com/top-5-english-writing-sites-making-your-feedback-more-actionable/>`__!
See also our `top 5 game
sites <http://emended.com/top-5-english-language-game-sites-making-your-feedback-more-actionable/>`__!*

With `Emended <http://emended.com/>`__ you can easily guide your
students to the right grammar – well-modelled material that maps
individual mistakes while plotting a course for self-improvement along
the way. Simply utilise links in your own feedback commentary to steer
them directly to topics and activities that may as well have been
designed just for them. Feedback doesn’t get more actionable than that!

To spare you searching all the wrong sites for just the right lesson or
topic supplement, here are our top 5 English grammar sites to share with
students:

1.
`Speakspeak <http://speakspeak.com/resources/english-grammar-rules>`__

Speakspeak tops our list and does so based not on having superior
content to the remaining four, but rather how fittingly they’ve
organised and presented that content. With Speakspeak, students can be
shown to any topic from an alphabetised A-Z grammar page, making that
process for you an easy one with disambiguating entries including not
only large umbrella concepts, but also individual words, phrases, and
singular issues within grammar itself. Is a student struggling with
*each* versus *every*, or nuances of using *since*? It’s all too easy
with Speakspeak to have them zero in on what’s been proving tricky to
get right.

As a bonus, the site offers countless printables for teachers to share
with their students and all of which come neatly packaged per
*pre-intermediate*, *business*, and everything in between. Lastly, use
of the site is free but if you find yourself willing and able, they have
downloads and e-books for purchase to help support the site.

2. `EF’s English Grammar
Guide <https://www.ef.com/english-resources/english-grammar/>`__

Education First’s English Grammar Guide boasts a navigability and
welcoming use of space that isn’t something to baulk at. Its content is
rich, well visualised when it needs to be, and exemplified exhaustively
to allow students really to see how words and concepts are put into
play. Their *Punctuation* page is probably the best of the bunch
(because how many of your students know in earnest the power of the
semicolon?) and even explains differences between American and British
variations (where relevant) without the usual clutter of its
competitors.

3. \ `English Grammar 101 <https://www.englishgrammar101.com/>`__

While geared a touch more for the already English-literate or
intermediate student, the lesson-masters over at English Grammar 101
have done a truly fantastic job of serving portioned instruction on all
things grammar.

The highly responsive and left-right sliding layout makes finding a
specific lesson or topic, dare we say it, fun, and with every topic in
and of itself being graded (that is, packaged into steps), you’ll
quickly notice the site content in its entirety leaves virtually zilch
to be explored elsewhere. While select content and/or services do come
at a fee, the abundance of free material warrants the site’s entry on
our list and included in that material are even in-lesson interactive
quizzes to wrap up each step, allowing students to self-assess! An
obvious service from folks with backgrounds in teaching and the
education sector.

4. `Englishpage.com <https://www.englishpage.com/>`__

The online resource heavyweight it is, Englishpage.com featuring in our
top 5 should come as no surprise. A couple of the greater attractors to
the site are its fun weekly lessons and lively forum community. From the
homepage, the main menu-opener *Weekly Lesson* directs you to an
automatically chosen mini-tutorial and from the perspective of an
English student, that can be a refreshing way either to broaden or
fine-tune one’s language horizons. The flip-side to the *Weekly Lesson*
feature is the tutorial master list being accessible within a click and
that’s where you can go to seek out target content with a student’s
error(s) in mind. For students themselves, its active forum arm lends
itself encouragingly to a feeling of never giving up and always striving
for self-improvement; moreover, anything that effectively connects
English students and teachers from across the globe is a big plus in our
book.

5. `Woodward English: English Grammar <http://www.grammar.cl/>`__

Rounding out our top 5 and yet another resource whose approach puts
pragmatism above theory, the stripped-down albeit friendly Woodward site
hosts a purposefully two-pronged grammar resource of guide versus games
(but what can be likened more to question-answer challenges). While
grammar topics abound, what stands out about Woodward English is its
*Students* section, where you can link students directly to a topic of
interest (and more so, any challenges or exercises pertaining to that
topic) from amongst the many conveniently available and coded per a tidy
table format. Does feedback get much more digital than that?
